Transmission Control Protocol(TCP) is the most commonly
used transport protocol on the Internet. All indications assure
that mobile computers and their wireless communication links will
be an integral part of the future internetworks. In this paper, we
present how regular TCP is well tuned to react to packet loss in
wired networks. We then define mobility and the problems associated
with it. We discuss why regular TCP is not suitable for mobile
hosts and their wireless links by providing simulation results that
demonstrate the effect of the high bit error rates of the wireless
link on TCP performance. We discuss and illustrate the problems
caused by the mobility of hosts using a graph tracing packets
between fixed and mobile hosts. We then present a survey of the
research done to improve the performance of TCP over mobile
wireless networks. We classify the proposed solutions into three
categories: link layer, end-to-end and split. We discuss the
intuition behind each solution and present example protocols of
each category. We discuss the protocols functionality, their
strengths and weaknesses. We also provide a comparison of the
different approaches in the same category and on the category
level. We conclude this survey with a recommendation of the
features that need to be satisfied in a standard mobile TCP
protocol.