View-oriented group communication is an important and widely used
building block for many distributed applications. Much current
research has been dedicated to specifying the semantics and
services of view-oriented group communication systems (GCSs).
However, the guarantees of different GCSs are formulated using
varying terminologies and modeling techniques, and the
specifications vary in their rigor. This makes it difficult to
analyze and compare the different systems. This survey provides a
comprehensive set of clear and rigorous specifications, which may
be combined to represent the guarantees of most existing GCSs. In
the light of these specifications, over 30 published GCS
specifications are surveyed. Thus, the specifications serve as a
unifying framework for the classification, analysis, and comparison
of group communication systems. The survey also discusses over a
dozen different applications of group communication systems,
shedding light on the usefulness of the presented specifications.
This survey is aimed at both system builders and theoretical
researchers. The specification framework presented in this article
will help builders of group communication systems understand and
specify their service semantics; the extensive survey will allow
them to compare their service to others. Application builders will
find a guide here to the services provided by a large variety of
GCSs, which could help them choose the GCS appropriate for their
needs. The formal framework may provide a basis for interesting
theoretical work, for example, analyzing relative strengths of
different properties and the costs of implementing them.